# Case Study: Driving Engagement Through Interactive Classroom Competitions

### Client
The clients were the teachers and students who use our interactive
classroom games to enhance math learning. The primary goal was to create
an engaging experience that motivates students to work towards their
daily goals while enabling teachers to monitor and celebrate progress.

### The Design Problem
The interactive classroom games, while effective, needed a boost in
daily engagement. Teachers sought a way to inspire students to achieve
their goals while creating a sense of collaboration and friendly
competition. The challenge was to drive usage of the games and create a
tool that supported both classroom and school-wide engagement.

### My Role
As the Senior Software Engineer at Explore Learning, I:

- Rapidly prototyped the application concept.

- Collaborated with the back-end team to design and implement the API.

- Built the front-end application from the ground up using Vue.

- Transitioned into a leadership role, mentoring junior developers, conducting code reviews, writing documentation, and overseeing sprint planning.

### The Solution
The solution was an interactive application that allowed teachers to set
up competitions where multiple classrooms could compete for the highest
score during a designated period. The app:

- Integrated data from existing classroom games to tally each
classroom's total score.

- Displayed real-time leaderboards on a teacher's dashboard,
including metrics such as scores, streaks, and other achievements.

- Celebrated classroom successes with an end-of-contest podium, showcasing
the top three winners.

- Provided customizable certificates for teachers to print and display,
recognizing the achievements of winning teams.

### Design Process

-   **Ideation:** Began with pencil and paper sketches to visualize the
    competition mechanics and dashboard layout.

-   **Wireframes:** Created detailed wireframes in Figma, collaborating
    with the UX team to finalize designs that were user-friendly and
    visually appealing.
    
    **Development:**
    
    -   Built the front end using Vue and Vite, focusing on clean,
        scalable code.

    -   Worked closely with the back-end team to design efficient and
        well-structured APIs.

    -   Handled API integration, authentication, and front-end
        functionality to ensure a seamless user experience.
    
    **Leadership:**
    
    -   Guided junior developers as they joined the project, mentoring
        them on best practices and conducting code reviews.

    -   Documented the application thoroughly to support ongoing
        maintenance and onboarding.

    -   Managed sprints, ensuring timely and quality deliverables.

### Results
The application was a resounding success:

✅   **Increased Engagement:** Usage of the interactive math games surged
    nationwide.

✅   **Improved Learning Outcomes:** Teachers reported higher competency
    rates among students, driven by the competitive and goal-oriented
    format.

✅   **Positive Feedback:** Teachers and schools provided glowing
    testimonials, praising the tool for enhancing classroom
    collaboration and motivation.

✅   **Company Impact:** The project significantly contributed to the
    company's overall success, cementing its reputation for
    innovative educational tools.

### Key Learnings

-   **API Design:** Gained valuable experience in designing robust and
    scalable API structures in collaboration with back-end teams.

-   **Team Collaboration:** Built strong working relationships with
    back-end engineers and UX designers, fostering a collaborative and
    supportive environment.

-   **Project Management:** Learned to manage the release, continuous
    integration, and deployment of a high-impact application.

### Conclusion
Leading this project was a fulfilling and transformative experience. It
solidified my confidence in leading large-scale, impactful applications
that align with business objectives. The project showcased my ability to
deliver full-stack solutions, from prototyping to production, while
ensuring exceptional user experiences. Moreover, it reinforced the
importance of collaboration, mentorship, and continuous learning in
achieving success.